SDL-0240 WebEngine support for SDL JavaScript - Revision (#844)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/0240-sdl-js-pwa.md

   2. manifest.json file
   3. An HTML file where the manifest is pointing to
3. The manifest.json file must be included in the HTML file as a script source

> 4. The OEM store's backend should store the compressed app copied from the SDL Developer Platform after the app and version was approved by the SDLC and the OEM. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The OEM store's backend should store the compressed app copied from the SDL Developer Portal (smartdevicelink.com) after the app and version is approved by the SDLC and the OEM. 
```

>    1. Note: Neither the SDL Developer Platform nor the SDL Server or SHAID are directly involved in distributing the app package to vehicles. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Note: Neither the SDL Developer Portal nor the SDL Server or SHAID are directly involved in distributing the app package to vehicles. 
```

> An overview of application runtime environment and how they connect to SDL Core. This proposal adds the WebEngine part.

### Chapter 1: Web application package
---------

Running apps on an embedded WebEngine defines a new app platform/runtime. With installing an app on the infotainment system there should be a minimum set of requirements on how the app should be packaged.

1. The app package should be a compressed zip file
2. It should contain a manifest.json and the sdl.js file
3. The manifest file should contain:

>    1. a relative path to an html file which is the entry point of the app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. A relative path to an html file which is the entry point of the app
```

>    2. a relative path to an app icon in the app bundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. A relative path to an app icon in the app bundle
```

   3. SDL app ID

>    4. app name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   4. App name
```

>    5. optionally per supporting SDL locale:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   5. Optional per supporting SDL locale:
```

>       1. app name (overrides global app name) (must be one of the valid app nicknames)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      1. App name (overrides global app name) (must be one of the valid app nicknames)
```

>       2. optionally relative path to an app icon (overrides global app icon)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      2. Optional relative path to an app icon (overrides global app icon)
```

>       3. optionally TTS name (an array of tts chunks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      3. Optional TTS name (an array of tts chunks)
```

>       4. optionally VR app names (an array of strings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      4. Optional VR app names (an array of strings)
```

   6. App version
   7. Min SDL RPC version supported
   8. Min SDL Protocol version supported
4. All script files should be included in the package
   1. Any `<script>` element with `src` attribute should point to a script file in the package
   2. No scripts from outside the package should be allowed
5. The entry point HTML file should refer to the manifest file (`<script src="manifest.json" />`)

#### 1.1 Manifest file

> Note: See appendix for an example manifest file

The manifest should be used for multiple purposes.

> The SDL Developer Platform should allow developers to upload app packages which are candidates for app certification. The platform can read the manifest file and automatically read app assets instead of requesting the developer to input the data manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDL Developer Portal should allow developers to upload app packages which are candidates for app certification. The platform can read the manifest file and automatically read app assets instead of requesting the developer to input the data manually.
```

App registration on the SDL Developer Portal (smartdevicelink.com) should allow a developer to specify an app as a local web app. As the app platforms increase (2 -> 3) a new way to specify preferences should be introduced. The element `BOTH` should be deprecated and replaced by `ALL` for a next major release. Occurrences of `BOTH` would be treated as `ALL`.

### 2.4 HMI API using App Properties RPCs

The HMI API should be extended to set app properties to SDL Core. This addition should allow the HMI to add app policy IDs to the policy database as they are installed by the embedded OEM catalog.

The HMI API extension is mostly a copy of the cloud-app-properties included in the mobile API. 

> 1. The OEM store uses the manifest data to for `SetAppProperties`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The OEM store uses the manifest data for `SetAppProperties`.
```

3. If an embedded app is installed the `enabled` flag should be set to `true` to appear in UpdateAppsList RPC
4. For local apps
   - "cloudTransportType" will be "ws" (WebSocket) or "wss" (WebSocket-Secure)
   - "endpoint" parameter will be omitted. Instead the HMI is responsible to launch local apps.
5. If Core doesn't know the app ID it should ask HMI for a policy update.
   - Alternatively HMI can call `UpdateSDL` after setting app properties to enforce SDL to perform the policy update.
6. Policy HMI impl. (incl. SYNCP) should have the ability to use embedded modem to send policy snapshot to the policy server.

#### 2.5 App presentation with Templates

The default app presentation approach should be template based. With the web app becoming active on the HMI, the HMI should present the application template. The body of the index.html file of the web app should be empty and should not be modified with scripts as the app won't be visible on the HMI anyway. The HMI should show the system component responsible for SDL templates. This component would receive the `Show` RPCs provided by the app.

#### 2.6 App update and certification

> As already mentioned, app packages are uploaded to the SDL Developer Platform. App developers may also update the application by uploading new app packages. The backend of the OEM store should store copies of a certified app package if the OEM accepted and approved the app. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As already mentioned, app packages are uploaded to the SDL Developer Portal. App developers may also update the application by uploading new app packages. The backend of the OEM store should store copies of a certified app package if the OEM accepted and approved the app. 
```

> As a result, managing app updates is the responsibility of the OEMs. App packages hosted on the SDL Developer Platform should not be made available directly to vehicles. No changes are being suggested by this proposal to the SDL Server or SHAID in order to support app updates. If needed by the OEM, the OEM store backend should be able to store app packages of different versions. The OEM store client should list and allow installing only supported apps, dependent of the vehicle software version, SDL Core version and app's min SDL (RPC or Protocol) version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, managing app updates is the responsibility of the OEMs. App packages hosted on the SDL Developer Portal should not be made available directly to vehicles. No changes are being suggested by this proposal to the SDL Server or SHAID in order to support app updates. If needed by the OEM, the OEM store backend should be able to store app packages of different versions. The OEM store client should list and allow installing only supported apps, dependent on the vehicle software version, SDL Core version and app's min SDL (RPC or Protocol) version.
```

> An app certification test should be perform to apps provided on the SDL Developer Platform before they are made available to vehicles. App developers can request SDLC app certification performed by the SDLC PM on the initial submission of the application. This app certification should be inspired by the mobile app certification and include tests that are valid for in-vehicle applications. It should not include tests to monitor data traffic with respect to effort and cost to perform such tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An app certification review should be performed on apps provided on the SDL Developer Portal before they are made available to vehicles. App developers can request SDLC app certification performed by the SDLC PM on the initial submission of the application. This app certification should be inspired by the mobile app certification and include tests that are valid for in-vehicle applications. It should not include tests to monitor data traffic with respect to effort and cost to perform such tests.
```

> The SDLC app certification tests will not test every detail and aspect of the application. Once the initial submission has passed the certification tests the app should be marked as certified independent of future releases which won't be tested anymore. The test will not guarantee that the app behaves the same in OEM vehicles. Therefore the OEMs should consider functional tests for each release to a depth they feel is necessary to make sure the app is of a desired quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDLC app certification review will not test every detail and aspect of the application. Once the initial submission has passed the certification tests the app should be marked as certified independent of future releases which won't be tested anymore. The review will not guarantee that the app behaves the same in OEM vehicles. Therefore the OEMs should consider functional tests for each release to a depth they feel is necessary to make sure the app is of a desired quality.
```
